We are now in module 4 of the RPF training again on my Snyder the curriculum manager here at the, cmmcab. In this module, we will be discussing Federal contract information FCI. As with all modules in the series the information, contained within the registered practitioner foundations RPF course. Is for the exclusive use of the Cyber maturity model certification accreditation body., Cmmc AP and the ecosystem members this information shall be considered CMC AB proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside
the cmmc assessment Consulting Community registered practitioners and RPO staff without the express written consent of the cmca mean. Cmmc was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon, University software engineering Institute. And the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with the direction from the office of the under secretary of defense for Acquisitions and systemic ousd, ANS. cmmc information can be found at www.acq.osd.mils slash cmmc the views opinions and/or findings contained in this material those of the author or authors and, should not be construed as an official government position policy or decision unless designated. by other documentation, this module consists of three topics. Topic one. We will go over protecting. information and topic 2 will go over the legal obligations and a
ANS. cmmc information can be found at www.acq.osd.mils slash cmmc the views opinions and/or findings contained in this material those of the author or authors and, should not be construed as an official government position policy or decision unless designated. by other documentation, this module consists of three topics. Topic one. We will go over protecting. information and topic 2 will go over the legal obligations and a, topic 3 will go over Federal contract information FCI. topiccoin protecting information our nation's adversaries are always on the hunt for, information even information that may seem irrelevant. at first glance take for example an order for 200 boxes of contact
information even information that may seem irrelevant. at first glance take for example an order for 200 boxes of contact, chip PVC smart cards. These are a CAC cards for those of you who are used to DOD or you use them at your, workplace. For some of us we're used to using cards. RF cards or stuff to scan into buildings, but for the dod it's a common common, access card to use to get into the facility number one to get actually into the gate and then to log into computers., and in here we're going to kind of use this scenario as throughout we're going to talk about our DOD supply company, that we're using in this course. On its own this information doesn't tell you much. However, it could simply be a standard order, you
and in here we're going to kind of use this scenario as throughout we're going to talk about our DOD supply company, that we're using in this course. On its own this information doesn't tell you much. However, it could simply be a standard order, you, know for facility particular facility, and it's just a restock for its Security office. But if there's something unusual about the, order such as it's being placed outside the bases normal ordering Cadence then an adversary might be able to guess that the pieces expecting some, type of visitors. or for instance if we notice the high influx of cat cards, we might notice that the base is going to start doing movements, so that they're going to be preparing for deployment stuff like that. That's where I adversaries are looking for. If if they do catch on to this this in turn
might make the base more a target for an adversaries action over the coming weeks. That is why and it is core that, the CMC model focuses on protecting this type of information. The dod supply chain receives a wide variety of information from, and generates a wide variety of variety of information for the dod. Much of that information is valuable to an adversary., Either alone or in combination with information from other sources. As a result even basic information referred to as Federal contract information, this needs to be protected. one of the great features of cmmc is the recognition that not all information has the, same value and therefore It does not all need to be protected in the same way. For example. While this smart card order. I just
mentioned May provide some intelligence value. The specifications for landing gear of the Next Generation aircraft are likely to have significantly more, intelligence value and therefore should be protected more carefully. I think we can all see that right. So as we take a look here on our diagram, right? We, have level one foundational we have these 17 practices and we understand that this FCI is just contract that it's telling them what to do with their, contract, but that critical data. That would be and of course the the fighter jet would kind of fall into that data within, level to our Advanced Data that falls underneath 171 or an ssp800 171. Another feature of cement of the cmmc model is that it is important for, contractors to understand that it is. Cmmc level one certification that aligns with existing requirements under the federal acquisition regulations. These requirements are included
in most government contracts. This means that the current US government contractors are already asserting that they meet these basic requirements, and just We're all kind of used to this. If you've been dealing with defense contractors with respect to this module's topic. You're probably also saying, okay,, so, how can my client tell whether something is FCI or not this kind of question. We get a lot here at the CMC AV in the, next few topics. We've designed this these this particular module to kind of help you understand and make these distinctions., Topic 2 is legal obligations. As you can see from our discussions so far regardless of where your clients organization is in defense, boats supply chain. It is important that they properly Safeguard the government sensitive information. As we will discuss in Greater detail in the later modules. It
it is important that they understand that that they must not only look at their own system cybersecurity. But also the cyber security, that protects the information flow to the other contractors providing goods and services to them. the original contract holder or prime contractor, Contract flow down is key to ensuring the safeguarding of Defense information from our adversaries. Of course before we dive into the legal obligations, let's, take step back. And we're going to discuss the structure of the US federal government. As many of you might already be aware. The federal government is comprised, of three co-equal branches the legislative branch the judicial branch and the executive branch. It should be noted that because of the concept
or other parts of the executive branch. Since we are talking about CMC. Which is coming out of the US Department of Defense and which, in turn. In is an executive branch Department. We're going to focus on cybersecurity related obligations of rising in the executive branch contracts, during this discussion. We should also note that. For this purpose of the discussion we are going to use the term agency., As a catch-all term for the different agencies departments offices administrations and other parts of the executive branch. We do recognize that in, certain contexts. There are important distinctions between an agency department and administrations, but for our purposes, those aren't as important during this module., Within the executive branch, each agency has a lot of latitude to Define how it operates for many years. This included the ability
by Contracting officers within the agency. information safeguarding obligations And of course for this course, we're looking at everything underneath far, 252.204-21 the contractor must protect all federal contract information or FCI. It receives or creates. the far 52.204- 21 defines 15 specific safeguarding requirements, that are the minimum expected of any contractor who receives or creates FCI. That is the key Point here is these, are our basic safeguarding requirements. The far 52 dot 204-21 has been in place for several years contractors have been self-certifying their compliance within this requirement, simply by signing the contract or being a subcontractor. Even if the provisions are not explicitly in the prime the prime contractors contract.
from the a government contract and the Court held that the government contractors are presumed to be for familiar with the far and that, mandatory Clauses that Express a significant or deeply ingrained strand of public procurement policy will be read into government contract, by operation of law. This is true, even if the parties intentionally omitted that clause That is a significant departure from traditional, contract law and catches some contractors by surprise the concept that a contract clause can be incorporated into a contract, with the US federal government. Even when the parties have expressively agreed otherwise is referred to as a Christian doctrine., Contractors have been either explicitly self-certifying compliance under far 52.204-21 for years. This creates potential issues under the false claims
initiates the false claim. A whistleblower can also initiate a case with some blowers will receive between 15 and 30% of, any award under the case. And we are seeing doj and whistleblower starting to focus on the cybersecurity requirements. In the arrow Jed Rocketdyne case. The Department of, Justice is suing the company for not protecting controlled unclassified information cui in accordance with the farce 7012. Based on the evidence provided by a whistleblower., And another one Cisco paid 8.6 million dollars to satellite case based around its internal procedures and that is products, developed using those procedures did not meet Phipps validation fisma and other cyber security related requirements for the contract. the false claim act creates an environment, which encourage bristleblowers but given the rapid rate of change in cybersecurity it can wind up. Being used as a malicious tool by disgruntled employees.
defense industrial base, but it's also great for cmmc with the level one self-addestation. And I think most of us were waiting for to see, what happened with this case and just seeing that Arrow jet rocket dying agreed to the the settlement and it took one day they didn't, really go through the the trial Omega big or deal out of it. So this was good news for everybody, inside the cmmc community and for the cyber security in general cross the defense industrial base. Topic 3 is federal contract information FCI., Let's start by looking at the definition of federal contract information. FCI if you are familiar with the executive branch contracts, it
government. Assuming the government is marking the information correctly. The provided by language is pretty straightforward. If it is a marked as intended for public release contractors, should treat anything provided by the government at a minimum FCI. But what about the generated for government part? Actually the same rule applies here. If the, contract doesn't say the information is approved for public release, then it should be treated at least at a bare minimum as FCI., Are there exceptions to this rule? Not really? even if the contractor calls for developing public facing marketing materials for the use of, the government unless the contract explicitly says that the contractor can publicly release the materials the marketing material should be treated as FCI until, the government approves their release. What about information that the contractor creates and wants to sell to the government like software to
of course and not the course here. We're specifically looking at FCI Federal contract information, but there are other regulations out there with the, federal government. In this module, we have discussed protecting information from our nation's adversaries legal obligations that are tied to Government Contracting containing, FCI and defining and breaking down Federal contract information. Again, we thank you for your attention module 5 is next prime and subcontractor, information flow.