Welcome to module two of the CMM Cavs Registered Practitioner Foundation's Training. I'm Mike Snyder, the curriculum manager here at, the C-M-M-C-A-B. This module will provide an introduction to the CMMC and the CMMC model. Again, the information contained within the registered, practitioner Foundation's RPF course towards exclusive use of the C-M-M-C-A-B ecosystem members. This information shall be considered C-M-M-C-A-B proprietary and shall not be disseminated, disclosed,, or discussed outside the CMMC assessment consulting community. That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff without the expressed written consent, of the C-M-M-C-A-B. Remember that CMMC was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute and the John Hopkins Applied Physics Lab, with direction from the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for acquisition and sustainment, which is O-U-S-D-A-S. Cmmc. Information is available at www dot acq.
of the C-M-M-C-A-B. Remember that CMMC was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute and the John Hopkins Applied Physics Lab, with direction from the office of the Undersecretary of Defense for acquisition and sustainment, which is O-U-S-D-A-S. Cmmc. Information is available at www dot acq., DO OSD dot mill slash cmmc. Remember, the views, opinions, and or findings contained within this material are those of the author or authors, and should not be construed as official government position, policy, or decision unless designated by the the documents, and we're gonna talk about those, as we go throughout the content. This module will consist of five topics. By the end of the module, you will be able, to discuss the defense supply chain and its role in keeping the DOD safe, the importance of safeguarding information, understanding the difference, between the defense and industrial base, the DIB and the defense supply chain DSC. Also explain the origins of the CMMC and the CMMC model., I'll explain the DODs CMMC implementation timeline. First topic is the defense supply chain. Many people talk about the DEF Department of Defense
These can be domestic and foreign entities and worldwide production assets. They also have partnerships with 200 plus DIB companies, and subcontractors. You'll notice that as we talk throughout the rest of the training. We also have contracted products and services., These could include military weapons and systems to include their subsystems. We also have underneath this systems and components and their parts., The supply chain within the DIB is highly complex. A single airplane consists of multiple components such as those that go into a helmet or a cockpit., Here we can see both of those within the airplane. With this breakdown, you can see each of those have their own components and so on down the line., This means that a single airplane can include parts made by hundreds and even thousands of different companies. Each tier of the supply chain must have at least the, appropriate best practices in place to safeguard the information that they have been entrusted with. While the DIB supply chain is large
but instead sent a phishing email to a lower tier subcontractor. Once they did, they established a foothold inside the subcontractor., They used their presence to target companies further up the supply chain. Topic two, the importance of safeguarding information. All DSE organizations must be responsible for handling,, storing, and transmitting sensitive information. As a result, the DOD has been on a mission to improve the security of its supply chain,, not just the dib, but the entire DSC. They recognize that adversaries are targeting the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the DOD related data,, and they're doing it through the defense supply chain. Much of this information at first glance seems a name, the value of contract, and the contact person within the DOD or the prime contractor, the kinds of goods and services involved, et cetera., And on its own, the data may be somewhat useless, but the adversaries aren't targeting just the DSE supplier. They are targeting suppliers throughout the DSE, and each piece of information is just like a puzzle piece that helps bring the DODs activities better into view.
As you can see from the definition FCI may be provided in the contract or may be developed by the contractor., Controlled unclassified information, CUI is defined as information that law regulation or government-wide policy requires to have safeguarding or disseminating controls, excluding information, that is classified under executive order. 13 526 a contract contains document marking. For CUI as shown, CUI requires more advanced safeguarding controls when, compared with FCI control technical information or CTI means technical information with military or space application that is subject to controls on access,, use reproduction modification, performance display release disclosure or dissemination, CDI or covered defense information means unclassified CTI or other information as prescribed in the CUI registry., That requires safeguarding or dissemination controls pursuant to and consistent with law regulation and government-wide policies, that information must either be identified and contract and, provided to the contractor in support of the contract or collected, developed or received by the contractor in support of the contract.
and impacting major Department of Defense programs. As we can see from the pictures, once the data is out, it makes that, Country able to reproduce the US product without the r and d. The research and development theft on the intellectual, property and sensitive information from all industry sectors due to malicious cyber activity threatens economic security and national security. The Council of Economic Advisors estimates, that malicious cyber activity cost the US economy between 57 billion and 109 billion in 2016. The Center for Strategic, and International Studies estimates that the total global cost of cybercrime was at its high of 600 billion in 2017., As a part of the acquisitions process, DOD program managers already must balance three acquisition pillars of cost, schedule, and performance to deliver new, capabilities to the war fighter. Over the past several years, DOD used cybersecurity as a fourth co-equal acquisitions pillar. However, the DOD recognized that this needs to change., They are augmenting their acquisitions approach in recognition that cybersecurity provides the foundation upon which other pillars are built. If sensitive information is not protected
information they need to protect. Topic three, the cybersecurity Maturity Model certification. CMMC. Instead of relying on contractor self certifications,, CMMC introduces the concept of third party review for contractor cybersecurity programs at CMMC level two, it allows for impartial review of the contractor's program, before award award and on a regular basis during performance. This helps take some of the responsibility off the contractor's shoulders, and allows issues to be spotted and remediated more quickly. Third party review also provides much needed validation of the contractor's program with Siemens c Virgin two., There's still CER self certification at a station at CMMC level one. However, this does not mean that the OC cannot seek out third party review, for their level one FCI. Environment. CMC helps ensure that contractors are not overlooking or taking for granted that key practices, or policies are being followed, bringing in a third party to check everything. CMMC has been designed to leverage the scalability, and agility of industry to help DOD meet this important goal. In response to the I request by DOD representatives from across a wide range
The CMMC program has multiple dimension and it establishes cybersecurity as a foundation for future DOD acquisitions. Most small businesses will only be required, to have CMMC level one self-assessments and affirmation, which requires them to only implement the 17 foundational practices under level one., You may be familiar with most of the practices in CMMC because they're based upon the existing practices from the primary source of CMMC model., In version two, this is n Special publication 801 71, which is the set of security requirements to handle CUI, as mandated by DFARS clause 2 52 0.204 dash 70 12. The model that underpins CMFC has three levels to ensure, that organizations can protect FCI at lower levels and CUI at higher levels. The model provides a progression of practices in a particular domain that allow organizations, to build upon their cybersecurity foundation. A certification of DS C organizations increases the's assurance that A DSC contractor can adequately protect FCI, and COI at a level commensurate with the risk. At CMMC, levels two and higher organizations will implement advanced practices
publication 801 71 R two, and NIST SP 801 72 CMMC draws on many years of research and development. The office of the undersecretary of defense for acquisitions, and sustainment has developed the CMMC framework in concern with the DOD stakeholders, federally funded research and development centers, FFRDCs, University affiliated Research Centers, U arcs, and the DSC sector. The model development was an open, transparent process, which included releasing three interim versions, for public review comment. In September of 2020, the DOD published an interim rule to which the DFAR in the federal register, dfa,, R'S case 2019 dash D 0 41, which implemented the DODs initial vision for the CMMC program, CMC version one,, and outlined the basic features of the framework. A tiered model required assessments and implementation through contracts. The interim rule became effective on November 30th, 2020,, establishing a five year phased in PRO. In March, 2021, the department initiated an internal review of CMCs implementation informed, by more than 850 public comments in response to the interim DFARS rule. This comprehensive programmatic assessment engaged cybersecurity and acquisition leaders within the DOD
of cybersecurity and cyber resilience, maintaining public trust through high professional and ethical standards. With that as a background, let's take a more detailed look at the CMMC model., The CMMC model is a way for an organization to benchmark their current level of cybersecurity. The model measures cybersecurity across three levels, and groups practices into 14 domains. The level show a progressive of cybersecurity best practices from foundational cybersecurity at level one, to advance in expert practices At level three domains contain the progression of practices for a particular discipline. There are three domains that were part of CMMC, level one, Asset management, situational awareness and recovery. They've been removed in CMMC version two. We now have 14 domains and 110 practices., We can also see that risk management has been renamed risk assessment. As previously discussed, CMMC has been designed with small business in mind., DOD re recognizes that many companies only ever create process and store FCI. That is why at level one, only six of
that organization for the certification at that level. This means that the organization completing their self certification at level one must implement all, 17 practices for level one. As shown in the table, the CMMC model consists of a total of 110 plus practices., That plus is because we are still determining, uh, the practices that will be for level three. The 110 came from the safeguarding requirements, and security requirements specified in far clause 52.204 dash 21, and DAS clause 2 52 0.20 4 70 12 As previously discussed,, level two focuses on the protection of CUI. It encompasses all of the security requirements specified in this SP 801 71, Level three focuses on the enhanced expert protection of CUI. This level is still pending as the DOD works through the details., As you're discussing CMMC and CMMC certifications with your clients, it's important for them to understand that many organizations will not need, multiple CMMC certifications and that the certifications do not need to be based on a single contract. In addition, most organizations certifications will
We'll be discussing Bob's Machine Shop throughout this module. Bob's machine Shop builds custom widgets for a variety of customers,, including the Department of Defense. Bob's Machine Shop has not received any CMMC level certifications. The Department of Defense issues a new RFPA request, for proposal for its widget one program. DOD makes it clear that the R-F-P-D-O-D makes it clear in the RFP that only federal contract information, or FCI will be involved in the resulting contract. They also indicate that the word E must be CMMC certified., Bob's Machine Shop decides to submit a proposal for the widget one contract. Bob knows that since only FCI is involved,, they only need their small network to be certified at CMMC level one. Sometime between the RFP release and the contract award,, Bob's Machine Shop completed their self-assessment and at at a station. For CMMC Level one Bob's, a machine shop is awarded the widget one contract, a year later. The DOD is issues. Its widget two RFP. This RFP also mentions that only FCI will be involved in the resulting contract
responding to the widget. Three RFP Bob's Machine Shop also invites CMMC level two certification process. Bob's Machine Shop also initiates the CMMC level, two certification process. Bob's machine shop successfully certifies at CMMC level two and is awarded the Widget three contract. We'll discuss how CMMC uh, requirements are expected, to be introduced in the contracts in the CMMC timeline. Topic six. Prior to the release of CMMC, US government acquisition regulations laid out the, groundwork for the protection of information that is instructed to contractors in 2016. The federal acquisitions regulation, the FAR clause 52.204 dash 21 prescribed contractors, to implement 15 basic safeguarding requirements to protect federal contracted information process stored or transmitted on covered contractor information systems., By the end of 2017, defense contractors were required to provide adequate security of covered defense information by implementing the security requirements within, NIST Special Publications 801 71. Although safeguarding sensitive information throughout the supply chain was better, there were still issues. Therefore, in early 2019, the Department
and how it's under attack. The DOD is moving to A-C-M-M-C version two framework. In this framework, we will have level one self-assessments, and level two third party assessments. The program will focus on organization cybersecurity program. The organization's demonstrating that they have met all the requirements, for a particular level will be awarded, uh, certification for that level to process, create, and store and receive CUI,, the organization must achieve a minimum of level two. DOD is currently working to finalize the CMMC version two rulemaking, which has a nine to 24 month timeframe., Unlike CMMC version one, incentives and a more streamlined approach to the CMMC model could re reduce the time contractor, see before assessments. We thank you for your attention. Module three is next, the CMMC accreditation body and the CMMC ecosystem.
