Welcome to montics the cmmc ABS registered practitioner foundations training. I'm Mike Snyder. The curriculum manager here at the cmmcab this module, provide an overview of the tools resources and templates that are available for RPS like yourself to prepare oocs for cmmc level 1., again, the information contained within the registered practitioner foundations RPF course as far as exclusive view, so the cmmc ab, Ecosystem members this information shall be considers the mmcab proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside the cmmc assessment, Consulting community. That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff. Without the express written consent of the cmcab. Remember that CMC was created in revised by Carnegie Mellon, University software engineering Institute in the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with direction from Office of the under secretary of defense for
University software engineering Institute in the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with direction from Office of the under secretary of defense for, acquisition and sustainment. Which is ousd ANS. Cmmc information is available. at www.acq.osd.mil/cmmc remember the views opinions and/or findings contained within its material or those of the author or, authors and should not be construed as official government position policy or decision list designated by the the documents this module consists of two topics, We'll go over the cmmc tools and resources that are available for our PhD utilized for cmmc level 1 ose self-assessment preparation., And the cmmc ab templates pertaining to the 17 level 1 practices. Topic one is the cmmc ab tools. New to the RP Community is the CMC AB, forums. The forms can be used for a variety of activities particularly asking about implementation questions about the CMC level 1 practices. You will, talk more about the forums in module 5 as we talk about implementations topic 2 is the seam mcab templates., Within the course you are in right now our variety of policies procedural documentation and system security plan templates that are based on
place the Box around the documents and module 6. These documents should help you understand the implementation of each cmmc, level 1 practice. Please note. There are templates like these in other modules as well. Osc preparation templates or blank templates that resemble the same course templates that, we've just gone through in the course can be found in the folder at the end module 8. Again, if you find anything throughout the course that you'd like, to be added just send a recommendation. In this module, we have discussed where to find the cmmc ab tools resources and templates, for this course and to prepare OS for cmmc assessments. We thank you for your attention module 4 is next cmmc assessments, coping.