All right. Welcome back to the registered Practitioner Foundation's, RPF Module three, the CMMC accreditation Body, and the CMMC ecosystem., Again, the information contained within the registered practitioner Foundation's RPF course is for the exclusive use of the C-M-M-C-A-B ecosystem members., This information shall be considered C-M-M-C-A-B proprietary and shall not be disseminated, disclosed, or discussed outside the CMMC assessment consulting community., That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff without the express written consent of the C-M-M-C-A-B. Remember that CMMC was created, and revised by Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute, and the John Hopkins Applied Physics Lab with direction from the office of the Undersecretary, of Defense for acquisition and sustainment, which is O-U-S-D-A-N-S-C-M-M-C. Information is available at the link provided there, which of course we all know is, uh,
Again, the information contained within the registered practitioner Foundation's RPF course is for the exclusive use of the C-M-M-C-A-B ecosystem members., This information shall be considered C-M-M-C-A-B proprietary and shall not be disseminated, disclosed, or discussed outside the CMMC assessment consulting community., That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff without the express written consent of the C-M-M-C-A-B. Remember that CMMC was created, and revised by Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute, and the John Hopkins Applied Physics Lab with direction from the office of the Undersecretary, of Defense for acquisition and sustainment, which is O-U-S-D-A-N-S-C-M-M-C. Information is available at the link provided there, which of course we all know is, uh,, www dot acq. DO OSD dot mill slash cmmc. Remember, the views, opinions, and or findings contained within this material are those, of the author or authors, and should not be construed as official government position, policy, or decision unless designated by the the documents.
That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff without the express written consent of the C-M-M-C-A-B. Remember that CMMC was created, and revised by Carnegie Mellon University Software Engineering Institute, and the John Hopkins Applied Physics Lab with direction from the office of the Undersecretary, of Defense for acquisition and sustainment, which is O-U-S-D-A-N-S-C-M-M-C. Information is available at the link provided there, which of course we all know is, uh,, www dot acq. DO OSD dot mill slash cmmc. Remember, the views, opinions, and or findings contained within this material are those, of the author or authors, and should not be construed as official government position, policy, or decision unless designated by the the documents., And we're gonna talk about those as we go throughout the content. Our agenda for module three, we're gonna go over the CMMC accreditation body., Uh, our topic two is going to be the CMMC ecosystem, and then topic three is going to be the ecosystem stakeholders,, beginning with topic one, the CMMC accreditation body. Of course, the CMMC AAV was, um, built by industry for industry.
www dot acq. DO OSD dot mill slash cmmc. Remember, the views, opinions, and or findings contained within this material are those, of the author or authors, and should not be construed as official government position, policy, or decision unless designated by the the documents., And we're gonna talk about those as we go throughout the content. Our agenda for module three, we're gonna go over the CMMC accreditation body., Uh, our topic two is going to be the CMMC ecosystem, and then topic three is going to be the ecosystem stakeholders,, beginning with topic one, the CMMC accreditation body. Of course, the CMMC AAV was, um, built by industry for industry., Uh, and of course, in the beginning, uh, it was designed through committees with representatives from across the industry, uh,, and it was run by independent board of directors. We currently have, uh, eight board of directors. We started with 15, we're down to about eight., And then of course, we have an executive staff that kind of filled in some of those gaps, especially with the academic side of the house.
Uh, our topic two is going to be the CMMC ecosystem, and then topic three is going to be the ecosystem stakeholders,, beginning with topic one, the CMMC accreditation body. Of course, the CMMC AAV was, um, built by industry for industry., Uh, and of course, in the beginning, uh, it was designed through committees with representatives from across the industry, uh,, and it was run by independent board of directors. We currently have, uh, eight board of directors. We started with 15, we're down to about eight., And then of course, we have an executive staff that kind of filled in some of those gaps, especially with the academic side of the house., We have continued feedback from industry working groups, uh, and there's different working groups from time to time. And then of course, we have different industry advisory, councils, and we slowly stand up more and more of our advisory councils as the ecosystem evolves a little bit of history and independence., Uh, how, how did this all begin? Uh, we began in, uh, with A-D-O-D-R-F-I, and that began in October 3rd of, uh, 2019.
We have continued feedback from industry working groups, uh, and there's different working groups from time to time. And then of course, we have different industry advisory, councils, and we slowly stand up more and more of our advisory councils as the ecosystem evolves a little bit of history and independence., Uh, how, how did this all begin? Uh, we began in, uh, with A-D-O-D-R-F-I, and that began in October 3rd of, uh, 2019., Uh, and this was for the request for the long-term implementation. Uh, and then as it emerged, uh, we can see there, it didn't take long., Uh, we have about a month later, uh, the DOD went to industry with this request to form a new accreditation body., And then in January of 2020, uh, these members got together, of course, some of them are board members and different, uh, working group members came up with the,, the initial layout of how the C-M-M-C-A-B would be, uh, comprised. And what it was allowed to do. It would be independent., Uh, it'd be an independent non-stock corporation. And with that, it's kind of neat the way it was all born,
but it's a formal, uh, recognition as a nonprofit entity with the US Internal Revenue Service. And it was pending for the longest time., Uh, and then right at the end of last year, we did receive our nonprofit status. Uh, the CMMC operates just like any other private, nonprofit organization. Uh, independence does not mean, uh, information is siloed. Uh, the one of the neat things over last year, and even into the beginning of this year is that we do have a very good, strong working relationship with, uh, O-U-S-D-A-N-S, uh,, with the undersecretary of Department of Defense. And that allows us to share information back and forth to help mature the, the CMMC model, uh,, the guides, any documentation, as well as working with the ecosystem. Um, which in the beginning, uh, there was a lot, of different groups, and that took a little bit of, uh, kind of finessing, trying to get everybody to kind of move along., Uh, we're kind of all used to working on different frameworks. And then A-C-M-M-C came together. Uh, we put all those working groups to, to kind of,, into a foundational program. And now everybody's on either academic, between academic industry, talks to the CMMC ab, and then that gets, uh, taken to the DOD,
Uh, the DODs, uh, RFI for cmmc, obviously, some of us went out and read it. The C-M-M-C-A-B, uh, is expected, to generate its own revenue. Uh, that's through dues and fees, our relationships with other partnerships, uh, conferences, which will come later on., You know, as we get the ecosystem up and running, you know, in full force. And then other sources as we, we generate revenue, you know,, down, down the road, things will come up and our partners will come up with other ideas. Uh, it's kind of one of the neat,, definite neat things about the way CMMC is built, is that, uh, a lot of people pride didn't see it in the beginning,, but our partners definitely come up with ideas every day. Uh, and then those get, um, kind of funneled to the DOD., We make suggestions and recommendations to the DOD if they think is a good solution, that proposal that will go back to the partners,, and then it gets developed. Uh, and then of course, we generate, uh, our revenue off of the top of that.
So the DOD sets those minimal acceptable requirements, uh, when we're doing certifications for ocs, uh, the DOD also imposes, um, contract level requirements, for those, the OSCs. Um, and of course, uh, for some of us, we know that that kind of falls on, uh,, the defense Contracting Management agency, DCMA, uh, within, uh, we, we kind of already saw some of these, uh, with the DAS clause, 2 52, 2 0 4 dash 70 12,, the, our, our NIST 801 71, uh, assessments that the DC made DIB CAC was doing. So that's things that were added to, to ensure, that cybersecurity com, uh, compliance requirements were being met. And then requirements of implementation, uh, of CMMC by contractors through DAR., So we're gonna see contractor requirements as they go through rule making here, uh, throughout this year and into early next year as they build, uh, the dfars,, uh, 2 52 0.204 dash 72 1 for CMMC. We'll, we'll get to see some of the requirements that come out of that., We obviously know they're changing. Now with the, the CMMC version 2.0. AV manages the ecosystem. Uh, and a lot of people get this, uh, kind of construed,
and implemented if it, if the DOD thinks that it's necessary. We also issue additional guidance, uh, and other documentation., The cap, uh, is, uh, the CMMC assessment process is one of those, uh, additional documentations. Now, granted, uh, the cap has taken a long time, uh,, to put together because it fundamentally, uh, bridges the gap between a lot of different aspects of the, the assessment process., Uh, and with that, uh, the, the idea is that the assessment guides give us that foundational, uh, what we're supposed to do., And then the AB, along with our ecosystem members, will provide additional guidance for the assessors, uh, of what needs to be done., Uh, ideally, the, the procedural, uh, what to do at the organizational level, and then down to the assessment Team, uh,, and member level, uh, to just to help facilitate while, while each person is out on an assessment to include the lead assessor and even the OSC., So that, that's the good part. Decentralized, the AB does not perform assessments, consulting. I think most people understand that we are here
uh, we are currently at 80,000 plus level two companies that will need a, a level two assessment. Uh, and then while the DOD is working, uh, on rulemaking,, uh, we can expect that contractors, and we're already seeing this right now, are trying to take advantage of the incentives, uh,, to begin assessments during the interim period, uh, while the DODs working on rule making. So that's, that's a definite plus., Uh, and then the, the ecosystem, uh, like I said in the beginning is, is was designed for scalability, which will allow the industry to,, to meet demand for consulting and assessments. Um, we didn't have a choice on this as it was being built, for the 80,000 plus. We understand that those level two companies are direct contracts. Uh, there's subs underneath them. There, there will be, uh,, additional contracts coming out once the rule, you know, is finally done, and they can, uh, put the clause on brand new contracts., So there's definitely a lot coming out in the, the months, uh, following rule making. But in the interim, uh, with CMC 2.0, there's definitely
Now, assessors do fall underneath the C3 pos, but as far as the, the ecosystem and how it's structured, the way we track everybody, by accreditation, uh, this is how it's laid out. And then we have RPOs, um, uh, on our, uh, organizational level, uh, RPOs fall, underneath our organizational level, underneath ab, uh, for the caco, we have our, uh, licensed partner publishers, and then our licensed training partners., So, and this is all training, uh, on the, the caco side of the house. When we get to the individual level, uh,, our registered practitioners will fall underneath our RPOs. And then coming down here, the, the change that happened last year is that every LPP has to have, uh,, a provisional instructor underneath them to create content. So that was one of the biggest changes. And then, of course, every LPP has to have instructors, underneath them to train the material. Uh, but, uh, to vet training that we did make the requirement last year to put, uh,, an instructor underneath to, to vet the material. The, the assessors, uh, most of us are used to provisional assessors.
it would be nice when, when we split, because we'll just be focusing on training on one side and then, uh, accreditation on the other, organization, seeking Certification. OSCs, uh, you can see the link right here. This is still on the C-M-M-C-A-B website. Uh, we will be going to a new website, where you'll notice there's a lot more information and resources for everybody. Uh, we, it's currently pending, but we will be adding the OSCs to the marketplace so, that they can interact with, uh, everybody else in the marketplace. The talk to, um, rps and then eventually assessors, and, uh, C3 pos to get the assessments rolling. Uh, but the, the idea is collaboration, correct. So as, as they're prepping, and they're starting to think about the doing their certification, that they can reach out to you. 'cause right now, as we know, the,, the marketplace is a hard to traverse. You would want that initial conversation, or just trying to find somebody you kind, of wanna be a member of, of the marketplace yourself. So there are, there are some, there are some aspects
Uh, and it's slowly progressing now that the DCM a DIP CAC is kind of back in full action, uh,, since the 2.0 changes. So, and we would expect that that would pick up more and more as they get back in the swing of things., Again, if you're looking to go out and just want to check the page, these pages change, um, frequently, uh, as the 2.0 changes happen, uh,, as we talk with the DOD. Uh, and then of course, with C3 pos, things change constantly, uh, that we've been getting better, with talking with the different groups. So I would tell you always go out and continue to check the pages for information., Uh, and then of course, with the new, uh, website changes coming in the next couple months, we will be going to a new platform., So expect to see a, a ton of changes. Registered provider organization, our RPOs, uh, grant, it's already, it's already in the marketplace., One of the first things to hit, uh, with the rps, uh, the biggest, uh, change for us in 2.0 is that the DOD.
and you're a registered practitioner, you're gonna be underneath a registered provider. So the, the, the DOD just wanted to emphasize that., Again, the links provided right here, if you wanna check it out. And like I said, over the next couple months,, there's gonna be a big initiative, uh, to updating the pages, providing more resources. Uh, this is a big campaign for the, the AB as well, as the DOD Alright, registered practitioners, which you're here taking the course because you can see we've revamped the, the first stage of this course., Um, and there's a lot more coming. Uh, but the spotlight is definitely on the registered practitioners, obviously, because you're the first, um,, members of the ecosystem to get to the organization seeking certification R OSCs. Um, and then, of course, the, our focus, for the C-M-M-C-A-B was on training first. Uh, and assessment preparation, getting you the tools that you needed. Uh, we went through a lot of comments, uh,, and then we went to the DOD and said, well, what do you want us to do? Where should we focus first?
that it will have implementation. And we were gonna do this with 1.0. Uh, we held off once November hit,, and, uh, it's put in the version two implementation as well. So, uh, when we get, uh, to, to that module, as you've seen,, we will talk about implementations again. Uh, if you go to cmmc.org and then register dash practitioners, uh, you can see., And like I said, over the next couple months, you will see a big change to the RPO and RP pages., Alright, the caco, the big change. So, uh, granted, we don't have a webpage for this. This'll come, uh, I would say in the next couple months., But it's going to be a, a, a big change. Uh, ideally, we we're probably looking at three to four months, uh, for us to implement all the changes., Uh, our certified assessors and certified instructors will fall underneath the, the caco. Um, ideally we kind of had this split mentally inside, of our heads since the beginning. We kind of work independently, but altogether, 'cause there's only so much of us here on staff.
we're gonna see the provisional assessors doing this work. Uh, they're gonna make up most of the assessment community they currently do., Uh, they will provide a large percentage of the assessment workforce during these initial assessments. Uh, they will be our lead assessors., Our, our provisional assessors will be doing most of the assessments in these first, uh, couple months to, to the end of the year., Uh, they will comprise that 85% of the assessment team during this first year into next year. Uh, provisional assessments will be complete completely, sunsetted upon the release of the CCA exam. So once the that exam comes out, we will have, uh, a period,, uh, roughly around six months, uh, and then we will sunset the, the whole entire program. And we will be on the certified program,, CCA certified CMMC assessors. Um, of course, they will be able to assess all practices on CMSC level two assessments., They, they are the, uh, predecessor to the provisional assessor. They are an assessment team member. And then we have the new CMMC lead assessor designation.
They want to get certified. And then initially, uh, we're gonna have contractors, uh, that are doing this for an active DOD solicitation, right?, Uh, that's, that's the purpose of this, right? And then we're gonna, we're gonna see CMC certifications that it's required at award contract., Okay? And just so everybody knows, not at proposal submission, it's gonna be required at the contract award. And we'll see that as we get done, with rule making here in the next year, year and a half. Uh, and then, of course, uh, the big change to this one is,, uh, the interim rulemaking period here in this, the next couple months throughout the year, year and a half, we will see the Volunteer, Incentive Program come out. Uh, so we'll start kicking off assessments, uh, can't wait to see that. And then, of course, as we know, uh, it says it may grow,, but we, we can expect to see that the, the other federal agencies will be kind of adopting CMMC with this big change., Going to the, just the nist, uh, 801 71 requirements, service provider organizations. Uh, the, in the increase in the OSC
This is actually saying, we've seen this, and we're actually stating that the work done by our team is good to go., Uh, they're going to hire our individuals. And then, uh, direct this is, uh, right now we've had, you know, 50 50, um,, some are direct employees, and then some are also contracted help. So, and I imagine as the ecosystem, uh, matures,, we'll see more direct employment, and then we will, yeah, some are still gonna, you know, we'll still have the employees that are contracted., Uh, but it is definitely, uh, a vast improvement to have these mass forces that are able to get through assessments and have a great structure, uh,, maintained, uh, association with at least one, uh, of our individuals. So, uh, this is, I was talking about this earlier., Uh, each one of the, our RPOs and C3 pos, uh, must maintain association with at least one individual, uh, in, in 30 days., So you have to have an RP or an assessor underneath you. Uh, and we've seen to go through the, the DAC assessments,
for an assessment as well. And then, of course, you're not, uh, authorized to, uh, facilitate A-C-M-M-C assessment. And then our certified, uh,, third party assessment organizations, our C3 POS requirements defined on the website, just like our RPOs, uh, the requirements are subject to change., Uh, more rigorous background checks. Of course, there's, there's a lot more that goes into our, uh, C3 pos. Uh, this requires CMMC and iso uh, certifications., Uh, like I said, they get A-D-C-M-A dip, cac, uh, level two assessment. And then they will also get, uh, ISO certification, uh,, application fee and annual fee once approved, uh, provide CMMC assessments, and they can also provide consulting services, uh, help, OSCs create Cybersecurity Pro. So ideally, they can do the same thing as A RPO. Uh, granted, uh, they have to keep this separate., This is where, where it kind of gets a little, uh, hectic, uh, keeping, uh, assessors and implementers. Now, the, the assessor could be the same thing.
on cybersecurity program development. They're gonna design and implement practices. Uh, and that's anywhere from implementing the technical aspects to helping them develop their policies., Um, I mean, I've, I've been there on that side of the house, and this can get very involved. Uh, but that's ideally up to, um, your rps., Uh, they consult with OICs on assessment preparation, anything from scoping to objective evidence and collection and storage. Uh, they are not authorized, to participate on formal assessment teams. And I just said that in the last slide, ideally, uh, uh, rp. And so I'm, I'm gonna try to stay this, and not confuse anybody. An RP can be on the assessment. So if an os, so if you prepped, um, an assessment, that OSC could invite you back to be there during the assessment, you just wouldn't be part of the assessment team., You wouldn't be conducting the assessment with, with the, the actual C3 PO assessment team. So you're not evaluating what you just implemented., Uh, but you would, you, it is possible that the RP could be in the same room, um, talking to the assessment team.
and be on the assessment team that goes back and assesses the implementation we just did. So. And I think a lot of us understand that, that would be a conflict of interest as we move on to the certified CMMC assessors receive their certified professional designation., Uh, CCP, uh, have gained favorable, uh, tier three suitability. This takes a little bit. Uh, it's anywhere from, you know,, a month to a couple months. Uh, or you, if you already have a, a clearance, you can see they're listed there., Uh, that does speed up the process. Uh, they do lead formal assessments of OSC, but we already seen, seen the lead assessor requirements,, which the, the official requirements for lead assessors will come out here in, uh, the next couple months. Uh, and then of course, just like the, the CCPs,, they can participate on the formal OOC assessments, provide consulting services, um, create our CMMC based cybersecurity programs, maintain compliance of OC systems, consult with O ocs,, and then, uh, do assessment preparation. The biggest thing is that you can't consult and assess on the same, uh, OSC
The DOD can see it. All of us can get into UMass to see the certification. Everybody's up to date updated for three years, as long, as nothing changes that, that is how a perfect assessment should go. Uh, uh, like I said, perfect. And granted, it could go a couple different ways., They could reach right out to C3 po. They may not come to the, the marketplace. Uh, but the idea is that, uh, you can see here that they're, the ideas that they wouldn't use the exact same team to prep, consult, and then do the, the, the assessment., They would use two different teams. Alright, in this module we went over, uh, stated that the CMMC is independent., It is not a government entity. Uh, the CMMC was created by industry for industry. Uh, the DOD controls the CMMC model,, and the AB oversees the ecosystem. The ecosystem is decentralized and is designed for scalability. Uh, just keep in mind that when they built the ecosystem,, it is built to be bigger than the DOD. Just keep that in mind. Uh, it was built by the DOD,
it is built to be bigger than the DOD. Just keep that in mind. Uh, it was built by the DOD,, but it's built so that we can get big enough to take over other federal, uh, agencies, uh, stakeholders. Just remember that we have reliant organizations that are,, that would depend or need, um, that's certification or any kind of information based on, uh, organization seeking certification. Uh, then we have our service provider organizations,, our C3 pos and our RPOs, and then we have individuals performing services, uh, our rps, our CCPs, and our CCAs., And then just remember, we don't wanna have any conflicts of interest. So if you prep an assessment prep for an assessment, as an RPO or CCP or CCA, you don't want to go back to that same, uh, organization seeking certification as an assessor., I thank you for following me through this module, and I will see you in module four.
