helps them both through their assessment if anybody ever came in they would know exactly how to do it so you're setting them up for success# When you're prepping the company you kind of want to get them in these. If they're not already doing these processes you want# to get them used to being able to run through the actions of showing how their network is secured. How do they# do these? Controls how do they put them in place? They nine out of 10 says there are doing them already. But if they're not and if you're if you are implementing them# for though, I see you want to show them how to do that? And do it correctly, right? We're documenting it# for them. And if you're doing the implementation as well, and you're not going to be staying on board, so we# know that some rpos are also. Msps, you're also providing the service. But if you're not going to provide the service down the road and that that osc# is taking a responsibility of providing, you know, the the service afterwards. They're actually going to take over the maintenance# of that device. Show them how to do it. Don't just document it actually. go behind and implement it correctly make sure they're doing what they're
controlling external systems access via their Access Control policy. The osc could also control or limited through physical controls as well. Keep that in mind. There's a lot more that oscs# can do. I mean, there's a plethora ways you can limit and control stuff. It's not saying you have to do everything technical you# can do stuff physically. I mean we can put everything inside one room, and you can only do it there and we have# a lock on the door and just one computer inside there and that's the only place we process FCI. So I mean you can get very restrictive. It's# really up to that organization. So just keep that in mind. What is written in those examples are not the only thing you can do and as# we get towards the end of the of this module we are going to talk about some ways that you can ask questions and about implementations. Hey# else outside and you use the ecosystem to your advantage. And talk about all the practices.# ac.l1 -3.1.22 control public information control information posted or processed on publicly accessible Information Systems assessment objective a Individuals authorize# to post or process information on publicly accessible systems are identified. In the access control policy we can see the information
be considered seam mcab proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside the CMC assessment Consulting Community, which# is registered practitioners and RPO staff. Without the express written consent of the cmmcab. Cmmc was created and revised by# Carnegie Mellon University software engineering Institute. Johns Hopkins Applied Physics lab and direction from the office of under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment. Oh USD# ANS CMC information is available. at https ://board slash www.acq.osd.mil/cmmc The View opinions and/or findings contained within this material are those of the authors# And should not be construed as an official government position policy or decision unless designated by other document. In this module, we have five topics at# the end of this module. You should be able to identify the cmmc level 1 assessment criteria. understand the nist discussion further discussion# topics CMC level 1 domains the cmmc level 1 documentation to include poems. And then we'll go over Spurs data and scoring information.# Topic one is level one assessment criteria. Cmmc level 1 assessment criteria consists of several key aspects when implementing the 17 practice across
There are specifications and mechanisms and activities. The purpose of examine examine method is to facilitate understanding and Achieve clarification# or obtain evidence. The interview method is the process of holding a discussion with individuals or group of individuals. To facilitate understanding achieve clarification or# obtain the evidence. And finally, the test method is the process of exercising the assessment of Jackson objectives. objects activities and mechanisms underneath those# specified conditions to compare actual with expected Behavior. assessment objectives I know I said it twice now. There's kind of drawn in there in my brain self-assessment objectives# are provided for each level one practice and our paste on existing criteria, and we know those come from this 800 171.# And then of course, they were modifying for FCI and Lou fcui. The criteria are authoritative and provide a basis to conduct the self-assessment of# a practice. Determination statements each assessment objective includes a determination statement related to the MMC practice. That is the subject of the assessment.# The determination statement are linked to the context of the cmmc practice to ensure traceability to the assessment result the requirement.
to the title is this SB 800 171 R2 contains the discussion from the associated disc SP 800 171 security requirement.# CMC level 1 aligns the par clause 52.204-21 which focuses on FCI and the nist text has been modified to reflect this.# In our further discussion, it expands the niscontent to provide information on the practices intent. Here we can see automated updates and# other automatic processes should be associated with the user who initiated who authorize the process. Has been added to the context of acting on# behalf of authorized users.# example contains illustrations on how the staff contractors might apply the practices these examples Are insights but are not intended to# be prescriptive of how the practice must be implemented nor comprehensive of all assessment objects necessary. Assessment objectives necessary to achieve# the practice assessment objectives met within the example are reference by a letter in the bracket. It states that you can explain that the company controls a system# and devices. Device access to the network you will prevent. Network access by unauthorized system devices. This is linked Objective C or Charlie
Microsoft and other vendors will list the specified account permissions and security settings in this case for SharePoint servers always refer to the manufacturer of the# device or application and apply those appropriate settings to comply with the cmmc practice requirements. and last and since then objective at# system access is limited to authorized devices including other systems. Let's look at the email sent by the it manager.# This is the first. stage in authorizing a device in this case. It's a new printer. Again, in the access control policy we can see that there# is a list of computers systems as well as network devices that connect to the information system that will access FCI. This could also be# A simple list maintained by the IT department with the devices just like Personnel that in processes that are authorized.# The main concern here is that the it manager or IT personnel at the new printer to the authorized devices list.# Thank you Robert technical. Good it manager. Moving to ac.l1.3.1.2 transaction and function control limiting Information Systems access to the type of transactions and# functions authorize users are made into execute. Here in the discussion we can we can see it's obviously again from this SP 800 and
very very more restrictive Assessment objective F the use of external systems is controlled and limited as stated previously. Our example osc is# controlling external systems access via their Access Control policy. The osc could also control or limited through physical controls as well. Keep that in mind. There's a lot more that oscs# can do. I mean, there's a plethora ways you can limit and control stuff. It's not saying you have to do everything technical you# can do stuff physically. I mean we can put everything inside one room, and you can only do it there and we have# a lock on the door and just one computer inside there and that's the only place we process FCI. So I mean you can get very restrictive. It's# really up to that organization. So just keep that in mind. What is written in those examples are not the only thing you can do and as# we get towards the end of the of this module we are going to talk about some ways that you can ask questions and about implementations. Hey# else outside and you use the ecosystem to your advantage. And talk about all the practices.# ac.l1 -3.1.22 control public information control information posted or processed on publicly accessible Information Systems assessment objective a Individuals authorize# to post or process information on publicly accessible systems are identified. In the access control policy we can see the information
in place to remove and address improper posting of FCI. Just like the review process for posting the example osc has# a information of movable process pay close attention when looking at objective e for those C most osc's tend to overlook how they will remove# the if something is posted to a website or social media. And I would say everybody does it but a large portion of oses# and organizations in general will like to review their proprietary Data before it gets posted somewhere. But if it that's say# a lot of people have a tendency to forget if it does get posted by accident. How does it get off# of that media because most of the time there's one or two people with an account, but once it gets onto a# server or it gets posted to a social media platform who gets contacted and how does it get scrubbed off of that site to ensure that nobody else sees it# so they have to have a full, you know process somebody's got a review the website. Somebody has have access# multiple people have to have access to you know have that admin privilege to remove it. And then normally the# you want to have contact, you know with somebody the in the media or somebody that has enough privileges within the company that
.5.1. Assessment objective a system users are identified we can see that the eye policy clearly defines how system users should be identified.# assessment objective b processes acting on behalf of users are identified the policy requires the use of sa after the service account name for# identification purposes assessment objective Z devices accessing the system are identified. all devices within the dod Supply Company Network have# specific identifiers outlined in the IE policy just like in the AC domain. This could be documented in other methods. We just want to make sure that the osc# does have a way to identify user processes and devices accessing FCI. moving into ia.l1-3.5.2# I've highlighted the identifiers listed in the discussion from the practice that came from nist s the p800 171 R2# we can also see that the OC has required unique passwords in IA policy. highlighted right here assessment objective a# identity of each user is authenticated or verified as a prerequisite to the system access. We can see that the IE policy clearly defines all# user account password criteria, this includes standard privilege and administrator to include domain administrator accounts. Assessment objective b the identity of each process acting
company has directly tied this objective to the procedures. Assessment objective b systems media containing FCI is sanitized before it is released where you reuse# the receiver is requiring purging in accordance with the minimum requirement in this sp80088. And this is one good strategy is to tie it to the# nisk guidance. For all osc's Grand ismo. OCS are gonna have different requirements and may go above and beyond and they put additional.# Steps into their procedures but following the niskindness obviously is a good strategy. The one last thing to point out is that the companies should# have a method to track what media disposal method is being used in paragraph 4.2 of the media standardization procedures the company specifies# the details that should be put into the sanitization certificate. Each organization will have different procedures. We just want to make sure that that they comply with mp.l1-3.8.3.# subtopic 4 the physical protection domain p we are now on page 26 of the cmmc self-assessment guide level 1# the physical protection P domain focuses on limiting physical access escorting visitors physical access logs and managing physical access in PE dot L1 -
Objective a physical access devices are identified in the osc's policy table 5.5 shows the current inventory of the physical access devices. They have been# identified by the fso. Objective-b physical access devices are controlled. the device here are controlled by the fso in a larger organization. This could be broken down by specific people and/or# departments. Objective C physical access devices are managed again in the policy. We can see that the only person Personnel authorized to manage the devices are the Personnel from the# HR department and the fso. Just like an object of b in a larger organization. You would have more Personnel or departments to manage the# devices. Some topic five is the system and Communications protection SC domain. moving right along we are now on page 34 of the cmmc self-assessment# guide level 1 the system and Communications protection acid domain focuses on defining and controlling security requirements for systems and Communications at the# boundaries of the OCS Network. Nyst defines a boundary as a physical or logical perimeter of a system the CMM# seagalossary defines a demilitarized zone a DMZ. As a perimeter Network segment that is logically between the internal and external networks. Its purpose# is to enforce the internal networks information assurance the IE policy for the external information exchange and to provide external untrusted
can see that the osc has required that every 48 hours at minimum. So there's just a minimum here as noted# in the in the discussion. It is a good practice for the osc to take advantage of available resources such# as our cwes and our CVS today to help in that remediating a flaws discovered in the organizational systems. This is sometimes provided through Fender products# and tools. That's other thing to keep in mind. If the ose does have the ability to integrate vendor products or tools that you suggest that is great. If not,# help them with free resources government resources one kind of the neat things about CMC 2.0 is that there's been a lot# of Partnerships with all the other government agencies for cyber security. So there's been a lot more resources. Moving on to object is BC and D system# flaws are identified within the specified time frame. The time within which to report system flaws is specified and the system floss are reported within# the specified time frame. When you're prepping those C ensure to check the logs and the reports that are generated this# you hear me already talked about this so I won't go to in-depth on it. But verify that any flaws that were found were reported to the
the biggest concerns. Is that a lot of OCS have a tendency to get example documents and they copy But somebody else has already created and they restrict themselves# based on somebody else's policy and what they don't realize is those are sometimes those come from bigger organizations that have# giant, you know, it staff that can remediate something in 24 and 48 hours with no problem. And so if you're with an IT staff of two to# three people, that's you know the average Task is just helping users within your organization. It's really hard to you know, remediate a system# flaw. You can't designate one person or that whole entire staff to Quick remediate that flaw. You may even have to go to a third party. You have a third party vendor that# that gets kind of shifted to to fix and they don't necessarily jump on it right away, you know, they need a couple days to fix it. So whatever it is just keep# that in mind as you're you're helping them prepare these practices build those times in or give variance which we're# gonna talk about here in a second. There's definitely ways to do it, but help them to build a strong procedure# that actually works with osc. Of course, if it's more feasible to do flower Remediation in a week versus two days, we we want
on because I can get off on these tangents talking about the different parts of the the text inside the practices.# Objective a the time within which to identify the system flaw is specified in the osce policy or the SSP. There should be a time# allocated for the system philosophy identified in our example policy just like we've seen before is required every 48 hours at minimum as noted in.# The discussion is a good practice for the OC to take advantage. This is nothing new. I'm checking to be.# This needed locations for malicious code protection are identified we can see. In paragraph 6.2 of this I policy that the OC is# documented location or devices that require malicious co-production as a registered practitioner ensure. Where assign Dot l1-3.144. That you make those the aware of all the locations that# might need protection from malicious code to protect FCI data as well as the osc's network and proprietary data. Objective b protection from malicious code# designated locations is provided again. The osce has stated in paragraph. six dot 2.1 Our 6.2. That it department will ensure automatic scanning is# configured. And then in 6.2.1. The practice is in procedures for doing so are addressed in dod.pro-si-314. This is a good time of
restriction. So word a system restriction. So that's one thing to keep in mind. So you want to get them used to doing it putting controls in# place can cause a lot of other problems. and now the last objective Objective C. Real-time militias code scans of files from external sources as those files are# downloaded opened or executed is being performed. We once again see that the policy lines up with our discussion and practice statement.# We also see that those C has listed a specific information systems that need to be scanned with those files from external sources# as those files are being downloaded open to our executed. now as an rpe, you are challenged with quite the# task of ensuring that the cmse practices correctly implemented. Let's take a look at this practice going one step further as we did in a few other domains.# I'm going to use the example on page 47 of the cmmc self-assessment guide level 1. I'm bringing it up the configuration# screen from within Microsoft SCCM. Now for those of you who are not used to the Microsoft SCCM. SCCM is Microsoft system center configuration# manager? And it's a Windows product that enables management deployment. And it lets you do security of applications and devices across a whole entire Enterprise.
map those policies procedures and other documents that are related to the 17 level 1 practices. There's really helps the osc. So even though it's not a requirement,# you know for them to document everything on an SSP. It does help the osc know where you know, those everything that they need documented or who# does what I mean, they can even go and say, you know, the it manager underneath this practice. That's the person# that's responsible for it. It lets them document everything and map it is ideally a mapping chart even though we don't reference it# like that, but it does help though is see understand what goes to what the system security plan is. Definitely a great way to map everything# to level one. And then of course policies and documentation again, you can see oh and none of these are a# requirement of level one. There's no documentation requirement for level one. But again having policies procedures and other documentation related to the 17 practice is# always going to help that osc achieve their ability to do the basic safeguarding requirements underneath level one. We want them to
just telling you to please post the question pertaining to AC Dot. L1-3.1.1. And then it tells you there, but if you have a question.# How do I implement this or what specific you know information does though is he need to have for AC dot? L1.3.1.1# you can put whatever you want. Now, if you want to have a general discussion like between all the RPS,# that's fine. The idea here is if there's something that is lacking in the course that you just went through so I didn't talk about specific tools.# So if you have a vendor specific requirement now, keep in mind we are not going to tell you how to implement a vendor tool. We will# tell you guidance on how to get that now if there is a discrepancy between what the vendor gave you because sometimes# the vendor themselves Lack the full details. So now if it is a discrepancy between what the dod has given for# that implementation compared to the vendor and we just need some guidance from the dod. What we will do is we will reach out to the dod# to the to the cmmc. We will reach out to the cmmc pmo or to the cmmc model team. And what
with that product or that type of product. That way you can implement it correctly and you won't have to worry about# a cmcss or a team of assessors coming behind you and telling you that you're wrong. So that is the idea with the Forum is that and then on top of that is that# everybody behind you that might have the same type of question or with a product that is similar can come and# look and not ideally have to submit a ticket to us or ask the same question. So feel free to use these# forums. That's what they're for now granted. There is only one of us me currently we're we're in the process of looking to hire more people. But as# you can imagine we're slowly evolving ecosystem and ab is slowly evolving our own. Personal internal employees. So it takes# it takes me about you know, sometimes one to two days to get back to everybody but I we do try to get an answer as quick as possible. Now.# There's something where the model team has to go back to the nest and they have to have a discussion because it's sometimes it# just trust me when I say If it's a large group, it has to go to the dibcak the nist.
answer now something that we already know I'm going to post it so that you can move on we don't want to hold you# up. We know there's a lot of stuff that goes in the planning process when you're talking to know a sea or if you're just trying# to get a contract with the no see to do an implementation. We know that sometimes it's very time-sensitive. So# we do keep that in mind, but we we definitely thank you for using the forums. And this is our new method moving forward to# get you the fastest most reliable answer to one year implementation questions. Okay, we are going to move back into our slideshow.# Okay in this module we have discussed. the level one assessment criteria The nist discussion further discussion and what's kind of how to use it the cmmc# level 1 domains? We went over all the domains and the practices that are underneath them and then we went over the documentation and the poems# what and how they're used. and ideally that they're really not they're not required when it comes to reporting currently, of# course that could change and then we went over Spurs and scoring. I thank you for your attention module 8.
to get a contract with the no see to do an implementation. We know that sometimes it's very time-sensitive. So# we do keep that in mind, but we we definitely thank you for using the forums. And this is our new method moving forward to# get you the fastest most reliable answer to one year implementation questions. Okay, we are going to move back into our slideshow.# Okay in this module we have discussed. the level one assessment criteria The nist discussion further discussion and what's kind of how to use it the cmmc# level 1 domains? We went over all the domains and the practices that are underneath them and then we went over the documentation and the poems# what and how they're used. and ideally that they're really not they're not required when it comes to reporting currently, of# course that could change and then we went over Spurs and scoring. I thank you for your attention module 8.# Module 9. This is next. We will go over contract and agreement to film it.