Welcome to module design. of the registered practitioners foundation training this module will go over the contract and agreements aspects that, we are addressing within the cmmc code of professional context copc. Again information contained within the registered practitioner foundations RPF course, it's hard, exclusive view. So the cmmc ab Ecosystem members this information shall be considers the mmcab proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed, or discussed outside the cmmc assessment Consulting community. That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff. Without the express written consent of the cmca
we are addressing within the cmmc code of professional context copc. Again information contained within the registered practitioner foundations RPF course, it's hard, exclusive view. So the cmmc ab Ecosystem members this information shall be considers the mmcab proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed, or discussed outside the cmmc assessment Consulting community. That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff. Without the express written consent of the cmca, B. Remember that CMC was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon University software engineering Institute in the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with direction, from Office of the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment. Which is ousd ANS. Cmmc information is available at www.acq.osd.mil/cmmc.
from Office of the under secretary of defense for acquisition and sustainment. Which is ousd ANS. Cmmc information is available at www.acq.osd.mil/cmmc., Remember the views opinions and/or findings contained within its material or those of the author or authors and should not be construed as official government position policy, or decision list designated by the the documents and we're going to talk about those as we go throughout the content., Liberation shall be considers the mmcad proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside the cmmc assessment Consulting community., That includes registered practitioners and RPO staff. Without the express written consent of the cmca B. Remember that CMC was created and revised by
acquisition, which is ousd ANS sd.mil / Candor findings contained within this material or those of the author or authors and should not be confused as official government, position policy or decision unless designated by The the documents and we're going to talk about those as we go throughout the content., This module consists of one topic contracts and agreements. in this copc version 2.3 on page 4 paragraph 1.2 affected persons and entities, number three the copc applies to registered practitioners as we can see highlighted. again on page six paragraph 2.2 The focus is on ensuring as registered practitioners. We'd, interest. when it comes to the matter if on page 8 or the cops 31 numbers 2 and 6 2
continuing on in the copc on page 10 permission Coming to the end of the copc. This is the appendix on page 14., Letter A the word agree an agreement is a contract between two legal entities. Just keep that in mind. In review, we just went over the basic contract, and agreements language. That's inside the copc. In this module, we discuss Countryman details that are in the code of professional because the cmmcab and how, to be perfect implementing and giving guidance for the osc's and members of the ecosystem. We thank you for your, attention and modules 9