Open modules 7 for the CMC ABS registered practitioner foundation training again on linksneider at the curriculum manager here at the, cmmcab. This module will provide an extensive overview of the CMC AV approach. to cmmc assessment scoping information contained within the registered practitioner foundations RPF, course Is for the exclusive use of the cybersecurity maturity model certification accreditation body. CMC AV and the ecosystem members this information, shall be considered cmmcad proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside the cmmc assessment Consulting Community, which is registered practitioners and, RPO staff without the express written consent of the cmmcab. Cmmc was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon University's software engineering Institute. And, the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with direction from the office of the under secretary of defense for Acquisitions and sustainment.
course Is for the exclusive use of the cybersecurity maturity model certification accreditation body. CMC AV and the ecosystem members this information, shall be considered cmmcad proprietary and shall not be disseminated disclosed or discussed outside the cmmc assessment Consulting Community, which is registered practitioners and, RPO staff without the express written consent of the cmmcab. Cmmc was created and revised by Carnegie Mellon University's software engineering Institute. And, the John Hopkins Applied Physics lab with direction from the office of the under secretary of defense for Acquisitions and sustainment., or usd/ans cmmc information is available at the link provided. The View opinions and other and/or findings contained in this material are those, of the author or authors and should not be construed as official government position policy or decisions unless designated by other documentation, this module will consist of five topics. by the end You should be able to go over high level scoping.
to be considered the osc for the cmmc assessment purpose the host unit FCI assets or cuisance and level 2 are required to be documented by the contractor, within the asset inventory SSP as well as the network diagram of the assessment scope. This can also be done with enclaves as we see here, in two. An enclave is a set of system resource that operate within the same security domain and that share, the protection of a single common and continuous security perimeter a segmentation of an organization's Network or data that is intended to be walled off that Network, or database from all other network or systems. A cmmc assessment scope can be within the assessment scope of an enclave., supporting units the people processes into technology that support those units. These are resources that need to be included as part of the assessment., Supporting units may include subcontractors external service providers esps and third-party service providers tsps as you begin the CMC assessment preparation or implementations, for the cmmc practices ensure that organizations have laid out the basics. I level flow for FCI and in level two for cui
card system. And of course, we know it's part of one of our assessment objectives. However inside here for the assessment scoping would, it be or not? Correct? Is it actually holding FCI data? It is not technically an FCI asset so it could be out of scope for this assessment for a, self-assessment. So keep that in mind what assets are actually in scope and out of scope. Is it holding FCI is a transmitting FCI., We want to make sure that when we label an asset that we actually follow the flow of information when it comes to, That federally contracted information. As we can see here. They are not part of this Enclave that we are using for FCI. These are other systems that, would be used throughout the the facility or the other contracts that they have with other companies or even with with other, government agencies, but not the dod. specialized assets Are not part of the level one cmmc assessment scope and they are not assessed, against the cmmc practices. They include operational technology. The Internet of Things iot or industrial Internet of Things iiot government property
special tooling special test equipment and real property government property does NOT include intellectual property or software and of course, we want to make sure that we go back, and we actually referenced the federal acquisition regular regulation the far 52 dot to 45-1 that actually covers this. Please take the time to actually kind of dig into, that that one aspect to make sure if you want to give the the osc some feedback, of course those, C can do that on their own but it's always good as registered practitioners or the consultant to actually have a little bit of background into you know, where where does, that actual guidance come from? test equipment can include Hardware and/or Associated it components used in the testing of products system components and, contract deliverables. This could include oscilloscope Spectrum analyzers power meters and special test equipment centralized assets are not part of the level one CMC self-assessment, scope and are not assessed against CMC practices. Restricted Information Systems can include systems and Associated it components comprise. Pricing that system. They are configured based
have and what they have what is in that contract that it could be very broad, for example, identifying the, people within the contractors organizations that process store or transmit FCI informs. All the contractor performs the following practices for, IA dot l1-3.51 identify Information Systems users processes acting on behalf of users or devices. Another example is when the contractor considers, all of its technology and external service providers. It will allow them to convey how they satisfy the following practices which would be, AC dot L1 - 3.1.20 verifying control limited connections our limit connections to and the use of external Information Systems. So and a good one for, this would be our Cloud environments if we're using a GCC environment or a GCC High environment from Microsoft, that would be, those external connections. We could also be just talking about Connections in and out to subcontractors. So we want to keep those in in mind another practice, that would fall underneath. This is the SC dot l1-3.131, which is Monitor and control and protect organizational Communications. We want to be able to know what's being
good start and then of course work like we talked about in module three, there's a lot of resources and, as we get into the practices, we are going to go over additional resources that you can use to ask a more questions. If you have any questions on scoping or, the practices and how to ensure that they are fully scoped out before the assessment starts. in review this module has gone over the osc high-level scoping, a granted that is contract level scoping ensuring that when that contract comes to or a contract that the osc is going to, be bidding on that. We capture everything that would need to be scoped. The cmmc's level one self-assessment scope. We, talked about FCI assets specialized assets scoping activities and how to correlate those to the cmmc self-assessments scope level one guide., Again, we thank you for your attention module 8 is next and we will be talking about the cmmc level one practices and the, implementation process.
as we get into the practices, we are going to go over additional resources that you can use to ask a more questions. If you have any questions on scoping or, the practices and how to ensure that they are fully scoped out before the assessment starts. in review this module has gone over the osc high-level scoping, a granted that is contract level scoping ensuring that when that contract comes to or a contract that the osc is going to, be bidding on that. We capture everything that would need to be scoped. The cmmc's level one self-assessment scope. We, talked about FCI assets specialized assets scoping activities and how to correlate those to the cmmc self-assessments scope level one guide., Again, we thank you for your attention module 8 is next and we will be talking about the cmmc level one practices and the, implementation process.
